# Chapter 7 questions

1. Stubs (function with empty body) are useful for debugging. how could they be
   made more useful?

   * one could also include the arguments and their type.
   * if it doesn't already exist, define the type of the value returned by the
     function, or `void` if it is strictly procedural.

2. Prototypes are not mandatory for fns in ANSI C. Advantage or disadvantage?

    * this functionality was included to maintain portability between K&R and
      ANSI C. While necessary, it can cause unexpected operations due ot the
      fact that functions with no prototypes cast the return values and the args
      a function accepts to default types if not defined.

3. What happens if a fn returns a value with type different than that which it
   is declared to return?

   * the return value is cast as the type that was defined in the function
     definintion.

4. what happens if a fn that is declaired `void` includes a `return` statement
   with an expression?

    * an exception will be thrown at compile-time since this is illegal behavior

5. If a fn is called before a prototype is defined, what will it return if it is
   supposed to return a type other than `int`?

   if no prototype exists, then the type of the function's return value is
   assumed to be `int`. This is obvously undesirable when it is supposed to be
   non-integral.

6. if fn called before prototyping, what happens to the types of args passed
   whose types do not align with those of the formal parameters?

   They are cast to a default value:

   * char/short are converted to int
   * float are converted to double.

7. what (if anything) is wrong with this program?

```c
int find_max (int array[10])
{
    int i;
    int max = array[0];

    for (int i = 1; i < 10; i++)
        if (array[i] > max)
            max = array[i];
    return max;
}
```

The function's argument is `int array[10]`. Arrays are passed by reference by C,
so if the user passes an integer array, the behavior is undefined, since the
argument `find_max` actually receives is a pointer to an integer array, not an
integer array. It will then dereference whatever the argument is and if it isn't
an addressable value, it will throw an exception.

8. How is recursion similar to a while loop?

They both execute code until a breakpoint is (hopefully) reached. They have
similar scope, but the values in a while loop are cleared from the stack after
each iteration, whereas the values for recursive fns are not; they remain on the
stack.

9. Name advantages of putting fn prototypes in header files and `#include`ing
   them.

* better maintainablility
* DRYer

10. write a program `fib.c` that computes the nth fibonacci number. define a
    global variable `count` that counts the number of calls made to `fib(n)`.
    Can one infer the value of count given `n`?

    * [fib.c](./fib/fib.c)
    * It appears that count produces its own fibonacci sequence:
        * count(1) = 1,
        * count(2) = 3
        * count(n) = count(n - 2) + count(n - 1) + 1 for n > 2

    How many calls to complete:

    * fib(11)
    * fib(25)
    * fib(50)

    count(11) = count(9) + count(8) + 1
        etc...
