# Chapter 15 questions - I/O functions

1. What happens if the value returned from `fopen` is not checked for errors?

Here's the prototype:

```c
FILE *fopen(const char *filename, const char *mode);
// opens the file specified by `filename` and associates with a stream
// `mode` specifies type of ops allowed (read, write, append, r/w/a+ [update])
```

If `filename` is null, or if it has restricted access (e.g. read-only), then the
function will return a NULL pointer, which leads to undefined (but certainly
unexpected/undesired) behaviour.

2. What will happen if i/o is attempted on a stream that has not been opened?

That's an error.

But more specifically, the operation will be on either garbage data or a null
pointer, leading to undefined behaviour.

3. What will happen if a call to `fclose` fails, but the program doesn't check
   the returned value for errors?

here's the fn prototype for `fclose`:

```c
int fclose(FILE *stream);
// closes the given file stream. Unwritten buffered data flushed to OS. Unread
// buffer data are discarded.
// returns 0 if successful, EOF (-1) otherwise.
```

if it fails, it will return EOF. The file stream will be closed and the buffers
will be flushed. this is obviously problematic if further operations on this
stream are performed. Doing so would lead to undefined behaviour.

4. If a program is executed with its stdin redirected to come from a file, how
   does the program detect this fact?

Programs won't detect anything themselves. We have to tell our program where the
input is coming from with args such as `stream` in `fgets`.

`fgets` requires the user to explicitly define the input stream. (Apparently,
this stream is `restrict` since C99. Not sure what that means.)

5. What happens if `fgets` is called witha buffer size of one? Of two?

```c
char *fgets(char *str, int count, FILE* restrict stream);
// Reads at most `count - 1` chars from given stream and stores them in `str`
```

therefore, passing count of 1 to this fn will read 1-1 = 0 chars from the
stream, while 2 will mean one char is read from the stream and stored in str.

6. How long must the buffer be to ensure that the string produced by `sprintf`
   will not overflow it? Assume that our machine uses 2-byte ints.

`sprintf(buffer, "%d %c %x", a, b, c);`

format codes:

* d: print argument as a decimal integer. if precision is given and the value
  has fewer digits, zeros are added to the front.
* c: arg is truncated to `unsigned char` and printed as a char.
* x: arg is printed as an unsigned int in hex.

We can't just calculate the sizeof these datatypes to determine the length
though. there are a couple factors:

* conversion of ints to chars requires us to determine maximum range of the ints
  to determine the number of digits.
* spaces in the format string each add a char (1 byte).

The range of signed ints on a 16-bit machine is (-(2^15)..(2^15)-1), since the
msb is reserved for the sign. This expands to (-32768..32767). The bottom of
this range takes up six chars, which is 6 bytes wide.

The `x` format code specifies hex. The value is unsigned, so the max is 2^16-1.
In hex, this is `FFFF` (the `0x` chars are not included). Four chars = 4 bytes

`sprintf` also appends a null terminator (1 byte) to the `buffer`. Therefore,
the buffer must be 6 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 4 + 1 = 14 bytes.

Moral of the story: don't use this function.

7. Same as question 6, but with this:

`sprintf(buffer, "%s", a)`

This one is way easier. It has to be the sizeof the string plus one byte for the
null terminator.

8. Is the last digit printed by the %f format code rounded, or are the unprinted
   digits simply truncated?

Guessing this is referring to a large float that has more chars than can fit in
an int. I believe they are truncated, becuase they would overflow the buffer
storing them and thus be inaccessible. As far as the comp is concerned, it
printed whatever was in there, so it's done; has no concept of the necessity of
rounding.

Nope, I was wrong:

The statement in the selection is incorrect regarding how the `%f` format code
behaves in functions like `printf` in C. When using `%f` to print a
floating-point number, the last digit displayed is actually rounded based on the
value of the subsequent digits, rather than simply truncating the unprinted
digits.

The rounding is done to the nearest value, with ties (when the digit following
the last printed digit is 5) typically rounded away from zero, in accordance
with the default rounding mode specified by IEEE 754 for binary floating-point
arithmetic (though this can depend on the implementation).

The buffer overflow concern mentioned does not apply in this context because the
`%f` format specifier and similar specifiers are designed to convert
floating-point numbers to their string representations in a controlled manner,
respecting the precision specified (or the default precision, which is typically
6 digits after the decimal point for `%f`) and rounding as necessary.

9. How can you obtain a list of all of the error messages that `perror` can
   print?

```c
#include <stdio.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <errno.h>

int main() {
    for (int i = 0; i < 255; ++i) {
        const char* message = strerror(i);
        if (message) {
            printf("Error %d: %s\n", i, message);
        }
    }
    return 0;
}
```

This will iterate through and print all the error messages in the C compiler's
implementation. For me, there are 134 possible values in range (0..133).

10. Why do `fprintf`, `fscanf`, `fputs`, and `fclose` all take a pointer to a
    FILE instead of the FILE struct?

In C, all objects passed to functions are referenced by value except for arrays
and pointers. Therefore, to avoid making a copy of the data, we need to pass a
pointer to its address in memory so that it can be acted upon.

11. What mode would you use to open a file that you wanted to write to, assuming
    the following?

* do not want to lose former contents of the file
* want to be able to write anywhere in the file?

`r+` mode achieves this goal:

* open a file for reading and writing without truncating contents
* allows use of `fseek` to determine position to write to.

12. Why is the `freopen` function necessary?

This fn is used to open (or reopen) a specific stream on a file:

`FILE *freopen(const char *filename, const char *mode, FILE *stream);`

the use cases are numerous:

* Automate I/O testing by redirecting stream to whatever, e.g. diff files to
  compare
* Redirect `stderr` for logging
* cross-platform compatibility: easily redirect io at a low level

13. is it worth the effor to think about whether `fgetc(stdin)` or `getchar()`
    would be better?

* Maybe not in 1999 when security was negligible (uPnP), but certainly today,
  you wouldn't be using unguarded buffers.

14. What does the following statement print on YOUR system???

`printf("%d\n, 3.14)`

This oughta be good.

See [junk.c](./junk.c) for output.

15. Explain how strings will be printed with the `%-6.10s` format code.

`-` means left justify
`6` is the minimum field width. If the contents of `s` are less than 6 chars,
then the output is padded (on the right in this instance) with whitespace chars.
`.10` specifies the max number of chars to be printed. If `s` is >10 chars, then
the leftmost 10 chars are printed
`s` of course specifies that the output is a string

* print left-justified chars from string `s`.
  * if less than 6 chars, pad the right side with spaces
  * if >10 chars, chomp 'em

16. When a particular value is printed with the format code `%.3f`, the result
    is 1.405, but when the same value is printed with the format code `%.2f`,
    the result is 1.40. explain this apparent error

I think it has to do with the IEEE standard 700-something? Yep, it's IEEE 754.

The actual value of the float's fourth-most-significant decimal digit must be
greater than or equal to 5 for this to occur.
