# Chapter 17 Questions

1. Suppose you have a program that reads a series of names but must print them
   in the opposite order. What ADT is most appropriate for this task?

   You want a LIFO struct, so a stack is more appropriate.

   Say we have an array of `Foo`, `Bar`, `Baz`, `Bat`. If we read them and push
   values onto a stack, then we have:

   Bat
   Baz
   Bar
   Foo

   We pop names and print them until stack is empty, which achieves desired
   result.

1. Which ADT is appropriate for organizing the milk on a supermarket shelf?

    FIFO -> Queue

    This is evident when you grab a gallon of milk: you take the first-in gallon
    from that row.

    The stocker, on the other hand, is adding new gallons to the 'back' of the
    queue.

1. In a stack interface, the `pop` function returns the *value* that it removed
   from the stack. Is it possible to provide both interfaces (uh, what's the
   other one?) in one module?

   Yeah sure, just parameterize it with a flag arg:

   `return (flag) ? value : flag`

1. Would stack module be *significantly* more powerful if it had an empty
   function that removed all values from the stack?

   Depends on the size of the stack i guess. The bigger, the better.

1. `top_element` is incremented *before* storing the value in push but is
   decremented *after* returning the value in pop. What would happen if
   reversed?

   ```c
   void push(stack_t element){
       /* store the element at `top_element` */
       stack[top_element] = element; // overwrites data at index=top_element
       // worse, illegal if is_empty()
       top_element++;}

    stack_t *pop(stack_t element){
       top_element--;
       // take second-from-top
       return stack[top_element];}
    ```

    This is undesirable.

1. What would happen if all asserts were removed from static-array stack impl?

    Bad stuff: illegal memory access, leading to segfaults

1. In linked impl of stack, why does `destroy_stack` pop each value on the stack
   one by one?

   so the memory occupied by the popped element can be freed more easily. I
   guess we could go back and free everything after too, but who wants to do
   that?

1. `pop` in linked stack impl declares `first_node`. Can this be omitted?

    Nah, we need it to see if the stack is empty.

1. When a circular array is full, `front` and `rear` have the same relationship
   as they do when the array is empty. Empty and full are clearly different
   states. How can this happen, conceptually?

    The `front` and `rear` elements are the first and last elements in a queue.
    In a circular buffer, both `front` and `rear` pointers can point to the same
    index when the buffer is either full or empty.

    To distinguish between these states, an additional flag or a count of the
    number of elements is often used. When the buffer is empty, `front` and
    `rear` point to the same index, and the count is zero. When the buffer is
    full, `front` and `rear` also point to the same index, but the count equals
    the buffer's capacity.

1. Which solution is better for solving the problem of detecting a full circular
   array: always leaving one element unused, or having a separate var to count
   the number of values in the array?

    neither is strictly superior. leaving one element unused reduces the
    available size of the ADT by one element. The separate variable adds
    additional overhead by necessitating its maintenance and care.

1. Write the statements that compute the number of values on a queue from the
   values of `front` 4and `rear`.

   ```c
   size_t values;
   values = (front == rear) ? 0 : rear - front;
   ```

    copi says:

    ```c
    /* handle circular and linear queues in one go */
    size_t values;
    if (rear >= front) {
        values = rear - front;
    } else {
        values = (buffer_size - front) + rear; // buffer_size is capacity of buf
    }
    ```

1. Which is better suited for the storage of a queue: SLL or DLL?

    Definitely DLL: we can `push` to the `rear` + 1 index if not full, and `pop`
    returns the value stored in `front`.

1. Draw the tree tht results from inserting the following values, in this order,
   into a binary search tree: 20, 15, 18, 32, 5, 91, -4, 76, 33, 41, 34, 21

    ```plaintext
               [20]
               /   \
            [15]   [18]
           /          \
         [5]         [32]
         /          /    \
      [-4]        [21]  [91]
                         /
                      [76]
                     /
                    [33]
                       \
                      [41]
                     /
                   [34]
    ```

1. Inserting values into a BST in either ascending or descending order produces
   an unbalanced tree. What is the efficiency of searching such a tree for a
   value?

   Way easier to find elements on average

1. What order would nodes of following tree be processed using diff traversals?

    ```plaintext
                 [54]
               /      \
           [36]        [72]
          /   \       /   \
       [22]   [41] [61]    [80]
       /  \   /  \        /
    [18] [25][40][51]   [73]
    ```

    Preorder: NLR
        54 36 22 18 25 41 40 51 72 61 80 73
    In-order: LNR
        18 22 25 36 40 41 51 54 61 72 73 80
    Post-order: LRN
        18 25 22 40 51 41 36 61 73 80 72 54
    Breadth-first: Levels, L-to-R
        54 36 72 22 41 61 80 18 25 40 51 73

1. write a `do_in_order_traversal` function

    see next answer.

1. write a `do_post_order_traversal` function

    see answers [here](./ex/tree/link_tree.c) and [here](./ex/tree/link_tree.h).

1. Which traversal of a bst will visit the nodes in ascending order of their
   values? descending?

   Ascending: In-order
   Descending: Reverse in-order: RNL. Not described in this chapter, but I have
   a feeling we will be seeing more of it shortly...

1. `destroy_tree` frees all alloc'd mem, so they must be processed in a particular
   order. Which one?

   Post-order. We need to free the leaves of a subtree before freeing its root,
   so we need to go LRN: post-order
