# Chapter 16 questions

1. What does the following return?

`strtol("12345", NULL, -5);`

Invalid base: cannot be parsed. Returns zero.

2. Are `rand` numbers any good? They're not truly random.

They are 'pseudorandom'. If they are sufficiently random, then they are
passable.

3. What is the result of [this program](./question_examples/randex.c)?

Each iteration makes result either 1 or 0. It appears that that, at least, is
random.

4. How write prog to det wheether `clock` fn on sys measures cpu time used or
   elapsed time?

`clock` counts cpu time, not real time. CPU time is measured in 'ticks', or
cycles. A 3.9GHz processor ticks 3.9 billion times per second.

A way to test this would be to write a program that iterates through a simple
loop. The body of this loop should take one CPU tick to execute. We store the
result in the `clock_t` var. if the result is the same as the number of
iterations per loop, then we know it's counting clock time. Else, if -1, too big
to store in result. Else, can deduce it's real time.

5. What's wrong with [mil_time.c](./question_examples/mil_time.c)?

See code for answer.

6. What is wrong with the [broken jump program](./question_examples/bjmp.c)?

See code for answer.

7. Write a program that will determine whether int div by 0 or floating-point
   div by 0 results in a `SIGFPE` signal. Explain results.

See [div_by_0.c](./question_examples/div_by_0.c).

8. A comparison function used by `qsort` should return negative value if its
   first arg is less than its second, and vice versa.
   Would it make a diff in the behavior if it did the opposite?

Yes, it would reverse the order. This is actually useful for reverse sorts.
