# Chapter 11 questions

1. What is the largest static array that you can declare on your system? the
   largest dynamically allocated piece of memory?

   *static:* 4GB (1B static ints)
   *dynamic:* 34GB

1. What is the total amt of mem you can dynamically allocate on your machine
   when you ask for 500 bytes at a time? 5000 bytes? is there a difference? how
   do you explain if so?

   the program 'succeeds' when allocating 8.5GB 5K at a time, but the return
   value is nonsensical:

   ```sh
   $ ./11
   Memory allocation successful
   -89934592 bytes
   ```

   maybe need to use a long int? Free the memory?

   Revised to use unsigned longs and free memory after execution:

   ```sh
   $ ./11
   Memory allocation successful
   32000000000 bytes
   ```

1. In a program that reads strings from a file, is there any value that can
   logically be used for the size of the input buffer?

   Yes, the line length is one logical choice. This can be 80, 120, etc.

1. Some C implementations provide a fn called `alloca`, which differs from
   `malloc` in that it allocates memory on the stack. What are the adv/disadv of
   this type of allocation?

   memory allocated is automatically freed, ensuring that no memory leaks will
   occur. however, the data are erased when the calling fn returns, so it cannot
   be passed back to the caller.

1. The following program, which is supposed to read ints in the range one
   through `size` from the stdin and return counts of how many times each value
   occurs, contains several errors. What are they?

   ```c
   #include <stdlib.h>

   int *frequency(int size)
   {
    int *array;
    int i;

    // get mem to hodl counts.
    array = (int *)malloc(size * 2); // should use sizeof(int) to ensure portability


    //adj pointer back one int so we can use subscripts in range (1 - size)
    array -= 1; // unallocated memory! out of bounds.

    // clear values to zero
    for (i = 0; i <= size; i += 1)
      array[i] = 0; // doesn't change the last byte in alloc, starts at -1

    // count how many times each value appears. return answers
    while (scanf("%d", &i) == 1)
      array[i] += 1; //always returns zero

    free(array);
    return array; // returns nul pointer. mem already freed.
   }
   ```

1. Suppose you are writing a program and wish to minimize the amt of stack space
   it uses. Will allocating arrays dynamically help? Scalars?

   Yes. Declaring an array as a local variable as a function allocates the
   memory for that var on the stack. The stack has limited size.

   By allocating arrays dynamically, one can allocate memory on the heap
   instead. The heap is larger, so it can accomodate larger data structures.

   Similiarly, allocating scalars dynamically gives the same advantage.

1. What would be the effect of deleting two calls to `free` in program 11.4b?

   Unexpected events will occur. Haha. Don't know what else to say. We will be
   overwriting inventory records left and right.
