# Chapter 9 Questions

1. Is absence of str data type an advantage/disadvantage in C?

  It is a double edged sword.

* Advantages
  * Faster compile/runtime
  * What you see is what you get
* Disadvantages
  * Subjective: very annoying to work with char arrays and pointers rather than
        mutable string objects like in Ruby. Maybe those who grew up writing machine
        code and C are more comfortable

2. `strlen` returns an unsigned (size_t) quantity. Why more appropriate than
   signed? Why unsigned less appropriate?

  signed values would be unnecessary, because no data type can have a `size_t`
  less than 0. Unsigned is less appropriate because it risks underflowing result
  when a large number is subtracted from a result: a very large value is returned
  instead of an expected small one.

3. Any advantage to have `strcat`/`strcpy` return values be pointer to end of
   string rather than beginning?

   Sure, this is more convenient if you wanted to use a strr... fn.

4. Simplest way to copy 50 bytes from array x to array y?

`memcpy(y, x, 50);`

5. Supposed you have an array called `buffer` that is `BSIZE` bytes long, and
   you copied a str into this arr with the following:

   `strncpy( buffer, some_other_str, BSIZE -1 );`

   Guaranteed that result in `buffer` is a valid string?

  yes, strncpy is length-delimited, so this prevents overflow if the destination
  is shorter than the source. `strncpy` copies characters from src string to dst
  array. However, it "always writes exactly the specified chars to dst; if
  strlen src < len, then dst is padded with additional `NUL` chars.

6. Why use `isalpha(...)` instead of explicit test `if ( ch >- 'A') //...`?

* way easier
* works for all encodings
* guards non-strings

7. Simplify this code:

```c
for ( p_str = message; *p_str !- '/0'; p_str++ )
  if ( islower( *p_str))
    *p_str = toupper( *p_str );
```

[Ok.](q7.c)

8. diff btwn these exps?

```c
memchr(buffer, 0, SIZE) - buffer;
strlen(buffer);
```

the first expression searches from start of buffer for the int 0 for
SIZE bytes
  it returns a pointer to the first occurrence of 0 or a NULL pointer.
Then,
  buffer, which is itself a pointer to the buffer array, is subtracted
from this
  return value, so we go back buffer bytes in memory from the
occurrence of 0.
  The rvalue of that expression is therefore the address of the first 0 in
  buffer less buffer , which is itself an address.

However, if the 0 is not in buffer, then the return value is undefined.

the second expression takes the pointer to the buffer array and returns a size_t
data type that is the length in bytes of buffer array.
